[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: I
think that most of us
experience a sense of
renewal, even magic,
during the time we spend in
nature or in our gardens.
In ancient times, it
was well understood
that the outdoors belong
to a kingdom of beings
who were responsible for its
life force, the Devic Kingdom.
Elves, fairies, brownies,
gnomes, undines,
and many other
invisible creatures
are tasked with keeping
nature alive with wonder.
Linda Cooper began
tapping into this kingdom
many years ago as a
landscape designer,
and has been asking them about
their world for as many years.
She's with us today to take
us on a magical mystery
tour of the unseen
world surrounding us.
I'm so happy to have you here.
And what a sweet, just
a sweet and magical book
you've written.
>>LINDA SHAYLOR COOPER:
Thank you, Regina.
>>REGINA: I just, I love it.
And when I was-- I've talked
to you quite a bit off camera
about all of this.
And we need to go
back a little bit.
Go back to the beginning
of where you first
started connecting
with this world,
and then the deal you had to
broker to make this book come
about, which is fascinating.
>>COOPER:Yes, well, I've been
interested in the fairy realm
ever since I was a little girl.
I was born in
South Africa, and I
used to go hide under
the bushes and feel
like I was in fairyland.
Then when I grew up, I
kind of forgot about it.
And I was looking for
my passion in life,
and I ended up being passionate
about being in my own garden.
I became so enamored
with the plants
and how they combined
and all of that,
that I ended up waking up
to the fairy realm again.
>>REGINA: Yes, as an adult.
Yeah.
>>COOPER: Exactly.
Exactly.
>>REGINA:And you had a
unique experience, too,
when you were a young woman.
Where most of us are like, just
pounding away on our careers
or child-bearing
and rearing, you
took a break with your husband.
I thought that was so
fascinating what you ended up
doing.
Let's talk about that.
Because it gave you
the space most of us
don't have the courage to take.
>>COOPER: Yes.
>>REGINA: To get in
touch with all of this.
And tell us about
your grand adventure.
I love this.
>>COOPER: Oh, it was amazing.
At around 25 years old,
I married this lovely man
who happened to be a
lawyer, attorney type.
And after seven
years of marriage,
he was so stressed out.
I mean, most the time,
I was in la la land,
but he was in the courtroom.
And I just was like,
this is not fun.
Because it was like living
on the razor's edge for him.
So I got to a place where I
said, Cooper I'm out here.
And he's like, no,
don't leave me.
So I said well,
let's go traveling.
Because I had done a lot
of traveling in my life.
So he, being the first Eagle
Scout in Orange County,
knew how to do
everything camping-wise.
I have never been a camper.
Anyway, it took us about a year.
We decided to get
in a Volkswagen bus
that we both outfitted, and
go to the tip of South America
and come back in one year.
>>REGINA: That's so cool.
>>COOPER: It was amazing.
>>REGINA: That's a dream.
>>COOPER: And we were
in our early 30s.
And friends of ours who
were around the same age
thought we were just nuts.
>>REGINA: Especially him
leaving his legal practice.
Yeah.
>>COOPER: Exactly.
Exactly.
But it gave us the
opportunity of being retired
at the age in our early
30s, which was amazing.
>>REGINA: To have
all that energy
and curiosity and adventure.
>>COOPER: Yeah.
At first, we didn't
know what to do with it,
except just figure out where
we were going every day
and where to get food.
Anyway, I almost had
a nervous breakdown
crossing the border in Tijuana.
I was going into a
third-world country.
Anyway, we survived it.
It took him four
months to relax.
And that was amazing.
But where it supported
me in this work
that I have eventually come to
honor and be passionate about,
was because we were
in so much nature.
We'd stay out in the wilderness.
We'd stay in national parks.
I was imprinted with the
way Mother Earth designs
her gardens.
So when I became a garden
fairy, when we got back,
we actually went
traveling for a year.
And then we got a bigger
vehicle because he wanted to go.
>>REGINA: A school
bus as I recall.
>>COOPER: A school
bus that he outfitted.
I said, I am not living
with you in a Volkswagen
bus for another year.
I'm sorry.
So we end up with a school bus.
And we outfitted it into an RV.
And he did all the work.
We both did, actually.
But he figured it out.
And we had a 2 and
1/2 year difference,
where we lived in our
home in Laguna Beach.
We had a grandmother's unit.
So we lived in the back
and kept our house rented.
And he got a job as
an RV mechanic at--
>>REGINA: What a
switch, career wise.
>>COOPER: I know.
>>REGINA: That's
wonderful, though.
He had to let go,
maybe, of some ego that
had been attached to
the previous career.
Or he was done once he had hit
South America in the VW van
for a while.
Yeah.Yeah.
>>COOPER: Exactly.
No.
Once you're a
lawyer, you never let
go of that part, the ego part.
Because they've had
a lot of education.
Anyway, so 2 and
1/2 years later,
I started-- in the
in between time
is when I started--
people would ask
me to do their gardens because
they'd walk by the garden
that I was enthralled with,
because everything was growing
to gigantic proportions.
And they were shimmering.
And it had beautiful scent.
It was, it was fairyland.
>>REGINA: Very magical.
>>COOPER: And so
I started-- people
asked me to do their gardens.
And I was like,
wow, this is great.
So that's when my landscaping
business actually started.
But then 2 and 1/2
years later, we
ended up taking our second trip.
In the second trip, we ended
up spending a major amount
of time in the national
parks and the state
parks of the United
States and Canada.
And at that point, I
knew what my passion was
and what I wanted to
do when we returned.
So I was, I'm sure,
the nature spirits
were imprinting me and
giving me information
on how to create fairy gardens.
So I, not knowing that at the
time, but when I look back,
I see how that worked.
So when I got back, I knew that
this is what I wanted to do.
But I didn't know how to
go about it, because I
didn't go to school and learn.
But I did go to the
school of Roger's Gardens
in Corona Del Mar
for three years.
They gave me a job
doing flower gardens
for their existing clients.
>>REGINA: So how did the fairies
dovetail in with this work,
then?
Because your gardens
were different.
>>COOPER: Well,
after the first trip
is when I woke up spiritually.
I knew there's got
to be something
beyond the material, the
garnering of material stuff.
Because we had it all at the
age of 33, and we were nutso.
So I was like, you know, there's
something's missing here.
And I hadn't really
lived a religious,
an organized religious life.
It didn't make sense to me.
So anyway, after
the first trip, I
realized that there's
something's going on.
And I want to find
out what it is.
So two of my friends, who
didn't know each other,
suggested that I
go to this woman
and get a psychic reading.
And I'm like, wow, what's that.
So I made an appointment.
And the first thing I asked
her is do fairies exist.
And she says, "Well,
of course, my dear."
And she goes into the
library and she brings back
this book called
A True Fairy Tale
that she'd had for
many, many years.
And it was written
by Daphne Charters.
And honestly, it's the
best fairy information
I have ever found
through all my years
of searching for
fairy knowledge.
And Daphne had-- she was alive
like from the 1930s '40s,
to the '80s.
And she had a relationship
with the fairies in her garden.
And she wrote this
book, A True Fairy Tale,
that were literally
documented information
that she telepathically received
from the fairies in her garden.
And it was the fairies basically
telling the story, what they do
and how they do it, and what
their daily life is like,
and how they have relationships
and what their homes look like.
It was amazing.
>>REGINA: Now, does that
overlay Geoffrey Hodson's
work from the 1920s?
Are there some crossovers
or similarities?
Because he's describing,
very similarly--
>>COOPER: Yeah
could very well be.
>>REGINA: Their lives, what they
look like, how they interact,
the levels of intelligence
in the realms.
>>COOPER: Yes well, chances
are-- I mean Geoffrey Hodson's
book, I have that book,
too, and I love it.
But I haven't been able to read
it like I've been able to read
Daphne's.
>>REGINA: I see.
There's a different
quality to it.
I'd love to read it.
Yes.
>>COOPER: Well, she's passed on.
And the original book
my teacher Gladys
gave me was printed in the '50s.
And it's just like the
most treasured thing I own.
And it's falling apart.
But interestingly
enough, she handed
over her writings and her
experiences to a gentleman
by the name of Michael Pilarski.
And in my book, I recommend
that people get that book
if they want a more in-depth
knowledge of the fairy realm.
And he got all of her writings,
which is like 3/4 more
than the original book.
And it's called 40 Years With
the Fairies by Daphne Charters.
>>REGINA: OK.
So I have to get that one.
These books are magical.
And these people are very
credible seers of their day.
This is not a hallucination.
>>COOPER: Exactly.
>>REGINA: There
are brains that are
wired for seeing
into other realms.
And these people are able to
see into these other realms,
and so they brought
back the documentation.
Now for you, you were able
to feel into the other realms
and receive information.
But you were kind of
frustrated that, why can't, I
can feel you.
I'm interacting with you.
I'm downloading
your information.
But you couldn't see them.
>>COOPER: No.
>>REGINA: And so,
you brokered a deal
when you were told to
write your fairy book.
>>COOPER: Exactly.
Well, after 25 years
of doing gardens
in Orange County, California,
I kept asking god, goddess,
all that is, OK, how many
more gardens do I have to do.
So I finally got the
download to leave,
because I wanted to
move to the Sedona area.
I knew that this was
where I was going.
And I retired.
And I got there and
I was sitting around.
And the fairies came to me
and asked me to do a book.
And I said no, I'm not a writer.
Don't want to go there.
Not ready to step
on the world stage
and deliver fairy information.
>>REGINA: I'd rather
keep it private.
>>COOPER: I didn't
really want everybody
to know what goes on
in my mind, you know,
and how I deal with fairy life.
So after about three times,
I finally acquiesced.
I said OK fine.
I'll make a deal with you.
If you will show yourself
through the lens of my camera,
I'll do that for you.
I'll do the book.
So honestly, the first
photo of the last garden
I did in Orange County, a flying
fairy shows up with a wand.
So then I was committed.
So I had to learn--
then I had to learn
to be a writer, and
self-publish, and a promoter.
>>REGINA: And it's interesting
because when you're
looking at images, some
of the fairy images
that you've captured,
and some of the things
you have in your
book, some of them
are like light figures that are
appearing in front of water,
in front of flowers
or landscapes.
And some of them are
obvious like Wizard of Oz,
like trees with faces.
Like, in Sedona for example,
those amazing gnome-like
faces that look like gigantic,
good natured entities
that are overlooking the land.
And anyone who spends a lot of
time out on the land in Sedona,
you can feel these beings.
You can feel them.
>>COOPER: Well, when I
started on this quest,
I didn't know what
they looked like.
So what happened is,
I went into meditation
and asked them to
please reveal themselves
in the lens of my camera.
And I didn't know, I had no
clue what they looked like.
I mean, I've seen orbs.
And many of us have seen
those in our photographs.
And I believe that that's
their natural state.
So I just intuited going through
the garden where one of them
might be.
So I would take a picture
here and take a photo there.
And then I'd go
back to my computer,
put the chip into the computer.
And then I'd study them.
And interestingly enough,
at first I didn't see them.
But then as I just kept
at it and at it and at it,
they started revealing
themselves to me
in the photographs, some of
which you will see today.
And what I found is
that they're hiding
in plain sight, which
is really remarkable.
It's just that our
visual is so linear.
But once you see them in
photographs, then what happens
is your awareness expands
and then your sight expands.
And my purpose of asking them
to show up in the photographs
is because I have read
almost every single book
on fairies known to womankind,
or my kind, humankind,
and mankind.
And I have never seen
a photograph of one.
And I thought, you know,
I've seen drawings,
like in Geoffrey Hodson's book,
and even in Daphne Charter's
book 40 Years With the Fairies,
they've got drawings in there.
So I feel what's so
pertinent in the book
that I've co-created with the
fairies is that they showed up
in physicality.
>>REGINA: And it's
all items of nature.
Some of them can be very dense.
They can be the mineral
kingdom, where you simply
see the face shining through.
Or they can be as fleeting
as a little sprite that's
at the water, when
the water is moving.
>>COOPER: Exactly.
>>REGINA: And this
is a part-- this
is where people have
trouble with fairies.
They think it's a rock.
So what if it looks like a face.
It's just coincidental
it looks like that.
>>COOPER: It's not.
>>REGINA: It's just the
tree looks like a face.
It's coincidental.
And that's what people
who are naysayers
when it comes to
fairies would say.
Is that, yeah, well you can
make a face in anything.
Tell them why that isn't so.
>>COOPER: Well, I choose
to call them nature spirits
because fairies are an aspect
of the nature spirit realm.
So if you see a rock with a face
in it, it is actually a gnome.
And if you see an
angel in the clouds,
that's considered a fairy.
And the fairies and the gnomes,
and all of the nature spirits
are an aspect, or an
evolutionary aspect
of the angelic realm.
So they are literally the worker
bees of the angelic realm.
And they have an
evolution that they
follow through divine will.
I learned a lot of
this information
through Daphne Charter's work,
because the fairies actually
were letting her know
what their job is.
>>REGINA: I want to
ask you to go through.
I just wanted you
to address that.
Because someone who's
skeptical about this would say,
it's a rock.
It just happens to
look like a face.
And from the work of Hodson, of
Daphne, of yourself and others,
no, that's not true.
It appears that
way for a reason.
There's intelligence
that fashions everything.
>>COOPER: This is very true.
>>REGINA: And that's the
point that we need to make.
So I want to start out
on the fairy realm,
starting with the microscopic
little fairies and the nature
of them and their
evolutionary path.
And then we'll go
into the more--
we'll go into the more
recognizable ones.
But before we do that, you
mention in your book someone--
a being called Lord Kuthumi.
Who is Lord Kuthumi?
>>COOPER: Well, in
creating this book,
I got the download
on some level,
to communicate with
the nature spirits
in the photographs that came
through the lens of my camera.
So I decided well, I'll try it.
You know, I've never really
channeled that much before.
And I thought well,
I'm just going
to ask them and
see what happens.
And it was amazing.
I had these telepathic
communications with them.
And on one of the
communications,
it was of Pan, who is an over--
>>REGINA: Pan.
Yes.
>>COOPER: Pan.
One of the demigods of nature.
And his job is to
oversee agriculture
and to also oversee the herds of
animals, as in sheep and cows,
to make sure they don't
overlap one another.
And he also communicates with
all the different nature spirit
realms.
So I asked him in channeling,
or telepathic communication
with him, well who do you go to.
And he told me Lord Kutumi.
And I thought-- I'd
never read that.
I had never seen it anywhere.
So I just trusted that
that was accurate.
So Lord Kutumi,
through my exploration,
is apparently the
over-lighting being
that takes care of all
the nature spirits.
>>REGINA: OK.
So and from there,
then the download
started as to the nature
of some of these beings.
And also, your research into it.
So give us an idea of what the
most minute little beings there
are like.
And then we'll start
graduating into gnomes
and elves and fairies and on.
>>COOPER: OK.
Well, I learned that the
Rudimes are the initial stage
of the fairy-- I
mean, the whole nature
spirit angelic evolution.
And they are like insects.
If you look up into a blue
sky-- not into the sun,
but into a blue sky-- if
you just stare up there,
you'll see like--
>>REGINA: Those
sparkling white bits.
>>COOPER: You'll see white bits.
And you'll also see like,
insect-like movements.
And also, when you look
on a lake, or on a river,
on the ocean, and you see those
beautiful sparkles of sunlight.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>COOPER: Those
are nature spirits.
Isn't that magic?
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>COOPER: I know.
I just love that.
Anyway, so they just
live a very short while.
And then they leave this
plane of demonstration
and go into the etheric realm.
And they go to school.
And then they come back as the
next evolution of nature spirit
angelic.
And then they live
on this plane.
And they do the work.
>>REGINA: And they're like, I
remember reading in the book,
they're anywhere from
an 1/8 of an inch,
those little tiny sparkles
you first spoke of,
the little insect-like
ones, up to 1/2 an inch.
And then keep
growing from there.
Right?
>>COOPER: Yeah.
See, their job is that
they infuse energy coming
from our sun, which
looks like the rainbow.
When we see a rainbow,
you see all these colors
falling to earth.
Well those colors are
always falling to the earth.
So their job is to learn
to infuse that energetic
and expel it out
to their charges.
So once they've mastered each
evolution of the nature spirit
realm, going all the
way up to archangel,
they go back to the other side.
They go to the other side,
just like we do when we pass.
We shed our physical vehicle.
We go to the other side.
We go to the halls of learning.
We learn our next focus of
what we desire to experience.
And so, they do the same thing.
So by the time--
>>REGINA: As they say,
as above so below.
>>COOPER: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Everything
we go through
is reflected throughout
all of nature,
right up to the size
of the cosmos itself.
>>COOPER: That's very true.
It's very true.
>>REGINA: So these
tiny little beings
are going through this as well.
>>COOPER: They go
through the same process.
And then they will
evolve to being--
>>REGINA: Let's say
to-- the little minutes,
those are tiny
little things again.
But by the time
you get to gnomes,
these are more sizable beings.
Right?
Anywhere from like six
to eighteen inches.
>>COOPER: Yeah many
people have seen them.
And they work in the earth,
you know, like in Snow White
and her dwarfs.
The dwarfs and
gnomes and trolls,
they're all sort of of
the same earth matrix.
Let's put it that way.
>>REGINA: Disney was apparently
quite tapped into the mystical.
>>COOPER: He must have been.
>>REGINA: When he did these
various films for animation,
he was actually drawing
on-- and I know in Hodson,
I haven't read Daphne's book.
I only have these to go by,
because I love his books.
Hodson's books about
the fairies and the way
he's describing them
back in the '20s-- when
he'd go into the forest and
this information would come
through him-- is very similar to
what people in different lands
characterize.
And I always found it
amusing that-- why not,
we wear clothes-- that these
little brownies and dwarfs that
work with the trees and
the grass and the land,
and come out of the
bark, have their little--
>>COOPER: They have
their own look.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
They have their little coats.
>>COOPER: They have
their own style.
>>REGINA: They have
And let's talk about the
levels of consciousness,
because I found that
fascinating, too.
Not all of these beings are
as intelligent or conscious
as some of the others.
>>COOPER: No, because it's
an evolutionary process.
So you know, when they're
learning to be gnomes,
or when they come
here to be gnomes,
they're working with
the earth elements.
And they're bringing
the nutrients
to the roots of the
trees and to the water
and to the mineral kingdom.
>>REGINA: So the ones you have
in your book of the red rock,
the huge rocks, the huge rock
face, and also the tree face,
those would be
considered gnomes?
>>COOPER: They would.
They would.
Because they're holding the
form of the rock or the mineral
kingdom.
So yeah, can you imagine
that kind of a lifetime?
How many years?
How many millenniums
you'd be sitting
there holding that energy.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Yeah.
>>COOPER: So that's their job.
And then they evolve to fairies.
And when they go
to the other side,
they learn about
how to be a fairy.
Then they get to choose, for the
first time in their evolution,
about what they want to
do, meaning the focus,
whether they want to be air,
earth, fire, water fairy
or, you know, nature spirit.
And also, it's the first time
they learn about suffering,
which I thought was very
interesting, because we,
as spiritual beings
having a human experience,
we have nature
spirits supporting us.
Fairies, there house fairies,
there are people fairies,
there are river fairies, there
are garden, flower fairies.
>>REGINA: We have
constant support.
Plus, the archangelic realm
and the angelic realm.
>>COOPER: So yeah.
So they have to experience
suffering so that they
know about the human condition.
And they know about
the animal condition,
because animals suffer, too.
And I'm sure, the mineral
kingdom suffers on some level
as well.
So it's interesting.
>>REGINA: And those
are depicted more
like Tinkerbell in Peter Pan.
>>COOPER: Mm-hmm.
They are.
>>REGINA: The fairies are
a little larger in size.
>>COOPER: But they
look different.
I mean, as I said, I didn't
know what they look like.
And so I have found that--
and I may have said this--
they're literally
hiding in plain sight.
So once you become
aware of what they
look like, you will start seeing
them, which is so exciting.
>>REGINA: You've captured a
couple of them in the book.
>>COOPER: And this is what
I was so excited about,
was to be able to have
photographs of them.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>COOPER: So anyway, it's--
>>REGINA: And then
you have-- I like what
you did, in that you had little
line drawings next to it.
So for people that don't
do pattern association
or their brains don't
work in an abstract way,
you can look at it, then go back
and look at it again and see
where that is, where
that is hiding there.
>>COOPER:I felt that was
absolutely necessary when
showing the photographs,
because, I mean,
I instantly see it now.
As I said, at first I didn't
know what I was looking for.
And then it was like,
wow, there it is.
>>REGINA: Well, by
the end of the book
you start, even just
reading through your book,
you start seeing the
patterns much more quickly.
>>COOPER:Mm-hmm.
Exactly.
So some people have
difficulty even seeing things.
But then the other
thing I noticed,
everybody sees
something different.
And through the evolution
of these photographs,
even though the book's
been out for a few years,
I will look at these
photographs sometimes
and see something I've
never seen before.
So I think that they play with
us, too, and reveal themselves,
which is fascinating.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
OK.
So we were talking
about fairies.
That's where a little bit
of free will comes in.
And they can go into any of the
realms, again, that they wish,
and start expressing themselves.
And they have a much longer
lifespan by this time.
>>COOPER: Exactly.
Yeah, they do.
They actually stay until they've
mastered whatever the focus is.
And they don't necessarily have
a physical form like we do.
But they can-- they showed up.
They showed up in the
photographs in forms
that I could associate with.
I may have said
this, but I think
their normal form
is like light orbs.
So I asked them to show up in
ways that we could identify
them, as in faces, as
in physical bodies,
and so on and so forth.
And interestingly enough,
when I went looking for them,
I found that I was
exhausted after going
through a garden
looking for fairies.
>>REGINA: Yes, I thought
that was interesting.
>>COOPER: And I thought
well, why is that.
It felt like I'd
installed the garden.
Because when I'd go and do
installations for people,
physically--
>>REGINA: A lot of work.
Yeah.
>>COOPER: I was
transforming their land,
and transmuting their
whole environment
through changing
their landscape.
Anyway, I asked the
questions and what
came to me was that the nature
spirits, to show themselves
in form, have to take from our
physicality or our ectoplasm.
And I thought, wow, that
makes so much sense.
Because honestly,
I was exhausted
after going fairy hunting.
>>REGINA: So that
they can appear
in a form that is recognizable
to you and through the camera
lens.
>>COOPER: Yeah.
Because they don't necessarily--
>>REGINA: They have to come
from a different density.
>>COOPER: Exactly, in the same
dimensional reality that we do.
But for them to show
themselves, they
have to pull from
our physicality.
>>REGINA: Well
some of them that I
find the most beautiful
in various depictions,
including in one of the
photographs in your book,
are the undines,
the water spirits.
And when I was reading
about the water spirits
in-- I think it was this little
Fairies at Work and Play book--
they're mostly
female and usually
have a flowing kind
of hair to them.
But what excited me,
reading about them,
is it was saying that these
particular ones were all
female.
And they would fly up, against
the current of a waterfall,
with the sun shining
on the waterfall.
And the electromagnetics
would charge them
in such a way that,
by the time they
went through enough friction,
they would literally
burst into light,
back into light,
and then go through the
process again after a time,
reform into more of a physical
appearance by the seer,
and then just keep doing
this, charging the water,
but exhilarating
themselves in the process.
>>COOPER: Yes.
Interestingly enough,
in Daphne's story,
she says that the inland
water fairies, or the Nerines,
are mostly female, whereas the
sea fairies are mostly male,
because they have to deal
with the intense waves
and the weather conditions.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>COOPER: So I found
that fascinating.
And there again,
in what you read
about how-- what
they were doing,
the water fairies
going up the waterfall,
they were absorbing the energy
from-- the solar energy infused
with the rainbow colors.
And they were infusing
it into the waterfall.
So that's why they
saw it in that way.
So it goes to show you,
that's exactly what they do.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
Well, I can't wait to go
under a waterfall again,
knowing what I know now.
>>COOPER: Yeah, just
call them in and say,
infuse me with all
that rainbow magic.
>>REGINA: Let's talk
about the fire fairies.
You have some beautiful
imagery in your book
of those elementals
that go along with fire.
>>COOPER: Yeah.
They are called
salamanders or Shallores.
And interestingly enough, my
name is Linda Shaylor Cooper.
So I realized I must have been
part of the fire fairy realm
at one point.
Interestingly enough,
when we call in fire,
we cannot get fire without
a salamander or a Shallore.
They come into being.
They spark the flame
when we light a match.
It's they that come in and
create the fire for us.
And obviously as we
know, fire gives life,
and it gives warmth, but
it also is a destroyer.
So they play a very vital
role in our rebuilding
of forests, in our transmuting
physicality into ether,
so to speak.
And into ash.
So they're responsible for
the recycling of matter
on our planet.
And without them, we
wouldn't have heat.
We wouldn't have food.
We wouldn't have anything.
So obviously, they are
aligned to the sunlight,
which makes sense.
They all are.
But yeah.
So every time you light a
match to build your fire,
thank a salamander
or a Shallore.
>>REGINA: And then
start, maybe, watching
for the faces and the images
emerging from your flames.
>>COOPER: Exactly.
Well, the way that I
got these photos were I
just sat in front of
my wood-burning stove
in the winter and just took
multiple digital shots.
Like one after the other.
The ones where you, it's
like the fast moving shots.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Mm-hmm.
>>COOPER: Anyway, that's the way
I got them, which was fabulous.
And then the water pictures
that I have in my book
are from the waterfall
in my garden.
But I asked them to show up.
So it's almost like
it doesn't matter
where it is, it's your
connection with them,
your intention around
what you want to create.
And they'll show up.
They're just fabulous.
>>REGINA: Let's
talk about, then,
the faces in the clouds,
the fairies of the air.
>>COOPER: Yes.
Those are commonly
referred to as the sylphs.
And you know, we
wouldn't have weather
without all of these
nature spirits.
Every single one of them,
including the earth ones.
The ones in the air,
they will show themselves
as formations in the clouds,
either as angelic beings
or faces, or animal shapes.
They'll also show
up as animal shapes.
>>REGINA: Yeah, and we're
all familiar with those.
I think all of us
have seen those.
I'm looking for a name here.
The name of the woman who
illustrated these drawings.
Ethel Winn Quayle.
Because we're going to talk now
a little bit about the healing
fairies, spirits, and how
that kingdom of elementals
and angelic realm works
with us from the other side.
And she was able to, back
in the '20s and '30s,
drew these amazing images of
watching these beautiful beings
utilizing light and color
in working with the ill.
>>COOPER: Yes there
are those fairies,
remember I mentioned
the ones that
have to learn-- they choose
to experience suffering--
and they choose
a path of helping
humans heal from
their sicknesses.
And most of us are not
even aware that they exist.
I mean, they will be
there no matter what.
But when we consciously
choose to call them in and ask
for their help, the amount
of the energy that is infused
is so much grander
and so much greater.
And one point I
want to make is, now
that you've become aware
of these beings and the way
they serve us, to take the
time to give gratitude and be
in joy, and thank them
for the beautiful service.
>>REGINA: Imagining them is
as important as seeing them.
>>COOPER: And also communicating
with them telepathically.
You don't have to look silly
and speak to them out loud.
But I must admit, I do.
And it's fun.
They love being acknowledged.
They love the gratitude.
And they love the
co-creation with we humans.
So if you have a friend
or a family member,
or you yourself are
not feeling well,
call on the healing
fairies or angels.
And they will, because
they're educated
as to the different
light frequencies
and how they can support
whatever distress that we might
be in, they know
exactly which colors
to transmit and to infuse in us
to harmonize our energy field.
So they'll keep
infusing it until they
see our energy
fields balanced out.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And that's something,
oh gosh, maybe 25,
30 years ago, I had my first
experience of that nature
that, at the time I
thought, this is weird.
This is very bizarre.
I was sitting
cross-legged on the floor
and it felt like someone
pushed me over from behind.
And I thought, what was that.
There was no one there.
But I thought, well,
I'll just flow with it.
And I bent forward so that
my head was on the floor.
And I stayed.
I could not make
myself go back up.
It's like someone was holding
me there in that pattern.
I had had a problem at that
time with my lower back
and I wasn't giving
that any thought.
But after this experience,
when I finally sat back up,
all of the pain in that region
was gone and had been, I guess,
properly diffused through
the meridians or something.
And I just said, thank you.
And since then, I will often
work with my unseen helpers
and friends, if I'm not feeling
well before I go to bed,
I'll just say, can you
work with my frequencies.
And they're amazingly efficient.
>>COOPER: It's true.
It's very true.
So you had the nature
spirit of yoga pushing you.
>>REGINA: Yes I had the
nature spirit of yoga.
>>COOPER: Pushing
you into release.
>>REGINA: And you say, they work
with-- they work thought forms,
our human thought forms.
>>COOPER: Yes.
>>REGINA: That's
how this interaction
between us and that world works.
>>COOPER: Yes.
All you have to do
is think about them.
And call them forth
and ask for their help.
And they will, 100% of the time,
show up, whether you believe it
or not.
But if you're
asking, then there's
some fragment of a belief
that you're nurturing.
>>REGINA: Darn, I should
have called them in.
I didn't think to
call in my fairies
when I got this nasty little
bug that I've been getting over.
I actually never called on
them, now that I think of it.
Tried to use the other
elements upon the earth.
What about house fairies?
You mentioned them.
You kind of skipped
over that quickly.
What's a house fairy?
What's their job?
And then I want to get
to the mineral kingdom.
>>COOPER: OK.
Well, house fairies--
every one of us
that live in a house
have house fairies.
It's a choice that they make
to keep the structure intact,
to keep the humans in harmony,
to keep the water flowing,
to keep the fire going.
So we have them.
>>REGINA: They basically
keep the home fires burning.
Structurally, they
keep it going.
>>COOPER: But what they
like is, they like beauty.
All nature spirits love beauty,
because look around you,
everything is so
beautiful that we look at.
So they really
appreciate if you have
sparkly things in your house
and you acknowledge them.
>>REGINA: You said
they like sweets, too.
>>COOPER: They do.
I have these little trays,
about this big, that are black.
And they have flowers
painted on them.
And I've got the little
miniature sets of tea cups
where I put honey and
flowers and sparkly things.
And they love that.
They really appreciate it
when you acknowledge them.
>>REGINA: So put a little
something out for the fairies.
>>COOPER: Yeah.
And also, if you have things
hanging in your window that
bring in the rainbow light, they
like that kind of thing, too.
But they mostly love
to be acknowledged.
So you don't have
to worry about it,
there are fairies holding
the structure of your house
together and bringing
you everything
that comes in your home.
>>REGINA: Well, your home--
I have been to your home.
You invited me over to take a
look at and feel the energy,
which it's an astounding place.
Not only does the garden
just have this harmonious--
you just want to
live in it, but you
have probably the most
extensive collection
of crystals and
minerals I've ever seen.
I mean, you have more than a
lot of stores in Sedona have.
>>COOPER: I do.
>>REGINA: And more
spectacular pieces
than most of the crystal
stores in Sedona.
Talk about that world, why
you incorporated it in the way
you did.
Talk about beauty and power.
>>COOPER: Well, I became
aware of the mineral kingdom
around the time I first
started traveling.
And also woke up spiritually.
So I became absolutely
fixated on these minerals.
And my first mineral was a
geode, just a quartz geode.
Well, through the years, I
just couldn't help myself.
It was a passion.
I'd go to the Tucson Gem
and Mineral Show every year.
And I'd go to Quartzsite.
Fortunately, I lived
close enough to be
able to drive to those places.
And after, like, 10 or 15
years, I had so many minerals,
I was like, what am I
doing with these things.
But I couldn't help myself.
Running alongside,
creating the gardens.
Then I'd run to the
gem and mineral shows
and purchase them.
So I ended up having
so many that I
had to try to put them
in order or something.
So being a landscape
designer, I developed a way
of organizing them into
what I call crystal scapes.
>>REGINA: Mm hmm.
Oh, they're beautiful.
>>COOPER: They are.
And they love being together.
You know, like, I'd
have tall points
and rough pieces together,
like a garden of minerals.
And what I love about
them is, energetically,
because they're connected to
the center of Mother Earth
and to the galaxy.
And they run the frequency.
So there are transmitters
and there are receivers.
So when you have
them in your home,
not only are they beautiful
to look at-- and especially
if you create crystal
scapes with them--
but they are literally
opening up your field
to be more receptive
to what's going
on in the galaxy and the
center of Mother Earth.
So they are like a telephone
system on some level.
And each mineral has
numerous nature spirits
that are holding it together.
And they're all in communication
with the other nature spirits.
It's like the nervous
system of Mother Earth.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And I even, just because I
knew I'd be seeing you here,
I grabbed one of my
favorite little pieces.
I love it, because I like
to hold it in my hand,
called celestite.
And it's this beautiful,
egg-shaped crystal
of this sky blue, gray color.
And you felt it a
little while ago.
And it just has these
extraordinarily soft,
lovely energies, that almost
connect you with the cosmos
when you hold them.
And so, that would be an
indicator of the kind of beings
that I assume that would be
associated with that stone.
>>COOPER: And this one has
a lot of water energy to it,
you know, with the color
of it and the softness.
Yeah.
So each stone-- there have been
people who have written books
that describe what each
stone's physical attributes--
>>REGINA: Yes, those
are wonderful books.
>>COOPER:Healing, metaphysical.
>>REGINA: Yes there
are a few of them.
>>COOPER: I've made a
huge study of the mineral
realm and their
metaphysical potentials.
>>REGINA: And do you
find, intuitively,
that what you read in the
books like the Crystal Bible
and so forth are the
same thing you're
dialing into on an
intuitive level?
>>COOPER: Yes I've used
these minerals as tools
to support me on my
transformation of shifting
from a fear-based reality
to a love-based reality.
So I highly recommend
the mineral kingdom
to support you in this way.
>>REGINA: Do you use the mineral
kingdom in your nature scapes
as well?
Do you have crystals
embedded in gardens and such?
And how do those
kingdoms work together?
>>COOPER: Well, I
used to, intuitively,
when I would meet a client, if
they had someone in the home
suffering, or whatever
their issues were,
I'd use the feng shui guide.
And I would literally put small
points of clear quartz crystals
in specific areas
of their gardens.
I'd put them in the
earth with my intention
around creating a
benefit for them.
I wouldn't normally--
I would sometimes
let them know that I did that.
But oftentimes, these
people would share with me
what's going on in their
world, whether they needed more
abundance to pay for
their garden fairy,
or whether they were having
someone ill in the family.
>>REGINA: And was it effective?
Is it usually?
Very.
Yeah.
>>COOPER: It was amazing.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And that level of intuition
has kept flowing through you.
And people call you up
for garden fairy readings,
for crystal garden
fairy readings.
>>COOPER: Exactly.
>>REGINA: What is that like?
What do you do when
you're doing that?
>>COOPER: Well, I've been
blessed with the delicious
invitation of doing fairy
readings in a crystal
shop in Sedona.
And I've been doing this
for like a year and a 1/2.
And it's been an
amazing experience,
because the longer
I've done it, the more
open is my psychic gate.
And the more information
comes through.
And the more I trust the
information coming through.
So I do fairy readings
for people privately,
or if they come
into the shop where
I work for three days a week.
And it's just been the
most delightful experience
because I get to meet the
most amazing people from all
over the world.
And I get to just go in
and hook up and deliver.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>COOPER: And the
energy is so amazing.
And my clients feel the energy.
And I feel the energy.
>>REGINA: And it's boosted by
all the crystals surrounding
you.
Yes.
>>COOPER: Exactly.
So, yeah, it's my next
level of giving, of service.
And I'm so grateful that this
was, number one, given to me,
and number two, that I am so
passionate about doing it.
It's just the best.
>>REGINA: And I know you said
you've done over 3,000 gardens.
And occasionally you
will still do one.
But once I manifest
a little windfall,
I want you to do my horrid
looking little backyard
in Sedona.
It's just raw.
It's not horrid.
It's just nature at its wildest.
I can't wait to see what
that can be transformed
into, because as you
talk about, when you put
the right kind of bush, a
little butterfly bush here,
a little something in
companion with that,
there's a shimmering
effect to these gardens.
They're alive.
>>COOPER: It would be an honor,
Regina, to work in your garden.
>>REGINA: I'm going to do
it, I'm going to make that--
>>COOPER: And you met
me at the best time,
because I'm so
much more involved
with fairy communication now.
>>REGINA: There you go.
And finally, as we
wrap this up, what
is your broad message to
people who maybe, yeah,
I'd like to believe in that,
but I mean, where's the proof.
We're showing some proof.
But what would you
like to say to people
as the final statement about
engaging with these realms?
>>COOPER: The fairies,
the angels, the animals,
the minerals, nobody is
going to achieve heaven
on earth without all
of us going together.
We're a unified family or field.
And so, the whole point of
the fairy realm coming up
to be visible again is to
work, to co-create with us,
because they know
the same thing.
They have the same agenda:
to bring heaven on earth.
So they're coming out of hiding.
And our job as spiritual humans
is to shift out of the fear
and into love.
We have to release
the fear-based reality
and embrace the
love-based reality.
>>REGINA: Well, and
you're a walking testimony
to your own thinking on
this, because you life
flows in a very beautiful and
harmonious manner as a result
of going into that relationship.
>>COOPER: Exactly.
And I'm ever so grateful.
And I'm ever so grateful that
the nature spirit realm called
me to do-- to be their
representative in human form.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Thank you so much for your time.
And it is magical.
>>COOPER: Thank you, Regina.
Thanks for having me.
>>REGINA: In the West, we're
so harsh with ourselves
due to programming and
scientific materialism
that we won't allow
ourselves to imagine and dial
in to the magical
world around us.
We have been robbed of this.
So here's our chance to
pick it back up again.
Meanwhile, you
can pick up a copy
of Embracing the
Spirit of Nature
at Amazon or other
online booksellers.
You can also contact
Linda directly
through her website at
thecrystalgardenfairy.com.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[MUSIC PLAYING]